---
title: Servlet Notes
categories: Servlet
tags: [Java, Servlet, Tomcat]
---
# Servlet

## Java Servlet

### 部署描述文件(`web.xml`)

> The path used for mapping to a servlet is the request URL from the request object minus the context path and the path parameters. The URL path mapping rules below are used in order. **The first successful match is used with no further matches attempted**:
>
> 1. The container will try to find an exact match of the path of the request to the path of the servlet. A successful match selects the servlet.
> 2. **The container will recursively try to match the longest path-prefix. This is done by stepping down the path tree a directory at a time, using the ’/’ character as a path separator. The longest match determines the servlet selected.**
> 3. If the last segment in the URL path contains an extension (e.g. .jsp), the servlet container will try to match a servlet that handles requests for the extension. An extension is defined as the part of the last segment after the last ’.’ character.
> 4. If neither of the previous three rules result in a servlet match, the container will attempt to serve content appropriate for the resource requested. If a "default" servlet is defined for the application, it will be used. Many containers provide an implicit default servlet for serving content.
>
> The container must use case-sensitive string comparisons for matching.

> In the Web application deployment descriptor, the following syntax is used to define mappings:
>
> - A string beginning with a `‘/’` character and ending with a `‘/*’` suffix is used for path mapping.
> - A string beginning with a `‘*.’` prefix is used as an extension mapping.
> - The empty string `("")` is a special URL pattern that exactly maps to the application's context root, i.e., requests of the form `http://host:port//`. In this case the path info is `’/’` and the servlet path and context path is empty string `(““)`.
> - A string containing only the `’/’` character indicates the "default" servlet of the application. In this case the servlet path is the request URI minus the context path and the path info is null.
> - All other strings are used for exact matches only



### 映射问题

* context path: 对应应用名称
* servlet path：对应web.xml文件中的url-pattern
* path info：对应`@RequestMapping`注解中的值

